Welcome to course two of
the big data specialization.
I'm Amarnath Gupta.
>> And I'm Ilkay Altintas.
We are really excited to work
with you in this course,
to develop your understanding and skills
in big data modeling and management.
You might have just finished our first
course, and see the potential and
challenges of big data.
If you haven't it's not required but for
those with less background in
the area you might find it valuable.
>> Let's explain what we mean by
big data modeling and management.
Suppose you have an application
where the data is big in a sense and
it has a large volume, or has high speed,
or comes with a lot of variations.
Even before you think of
how to handle the bigness,
you need to have a sense of
what the data looks like.
The goal of data modeling is to
formally explore the nature of data, so
that you can figure out what
kind of storage you need, and
what kind of processing you can do on it.
The goal of data management
is to figure out
what kind of infrastructure support
you would need for the data.
For example, does your environment need
to keep multiple replicas of the data?
Do you need to do statistical
computation with the data?
Once these operational requirements,
you'll
be able to choose the right system that
will let you perform these operations.
>> We will also introduce
management of big data as it is
streaming from data sources and talk
about storage architectures for big data.
For example,
how can high velocity data get ingested,
managed, stored in order to enable
real time analytical capabilities.
Or what is the difference between
data at rest and data in motion?
And how can a data system enable both?
>> Once you've understood the basic
concepts of data modeling,
data management, and streaming data,
we will introduce you
to the characteristics of large volume
data and how to think about that.
Thus, we will transition from
classical database management systems,
that is DBMSs,
to big data management systems, or BDMSs.
We'll present brief overviews of
several big data management systems
available in the marketplace today.
We are so excited to show you examples
of archived and streaming big data sets.
Our goal is to provide you with simple
hands on exercises that require
no programming, but show you what
big data looks like, and why various
big data management systems are suitable
for specific kinds of big data.
In the end you will be
able to design a simple
big data information system
using this knowledge.
We wish you a fun time learning and
hope to hear from you in the discussion
forums and learner stories.
>> Happy learning and think big data.